On the first day of the web development bootcamp we learned about the basics and fundamentals of the internet.
The topics which I have learned over this session are the following.

Domain
Domain name is a general name given to a website to store the location of the website and it points to the IP address of the website.

DNS
DNS stands for Domain Name System and it resolves the Domain Names Into IP address. So that the web browser can load internet resources through IP address as they only interact through IP addresses. Each device connected to the internet has an unique IP address with other machines DNS helps to find the the device with the help of this unique IP address.

DNS is the phone book of the internet. DNS resolver is the hardcoded IP address given to each device to which the client browser makes a request to find the desired IP address. It operates as "I dont know, But I know someone who might know" so when browser requests a DNS it connects with other DNS Servers which might know where the desired Ip address of the webpage is stored.

HTTP/HTTPS
HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol. It is certain set of rules which the client and the server both have to follow to set up a succesful communication. HTTPS stand for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secured. It is used to used to transfer encrypted data. We can not send encrypted data in HTTP as it lacks security.

Status Code
Status code conveys a message that a servers wants to say to requested resource. Example: 404 signifies the requested resource is not found, while 200 signifies Ok and success.

Ports and Port Numbers
Port Numbers are used to define different services of the same server and the computer. If we consider a computer as a home then ports are the doors which will allow exit and entry of data through the computer. Port numbers are also not infinite.

Request Methods
HTTP has a collection of request methods which specifies the action requested to the server.

GET: It is used to rerieve and view data from a web server. POST: POST request is used to send data to the server. PUT: PUT is used to create a new resource for the server or to modify the data on the server. PATCH: Similar to PUT except that it only modifies a particular portion of the server. DELETE: It is used to delete data in the server in a specified location.
